npm run dev # Starts both backend (3001) and frontend (5173)
npm run build
echo y | vercel --prod 
Live at https://meroexpensetracker.vercel
# Install Firebase CLI
npm install -g firebase-tools
# Login to Firebase
firebase login
# Link to your Firebase project
firebase use --add    # pick your project from the list
# Deploy the security rules
firebase deploy --only firestore:rules
cd "d:\programming exercise\react\expenses tracker"
echo y | vercel --prod


(done) all user should be able to login their account and see their profile and edit it if they want to. They should also be able to see their expenses and add new expenses. They can also see their budget and how much they have left for the month. They can set goals for their savings and track their progress. They can also see tips and advice on how to save money and manage their finances better.

Expense tracker (done)
Country wise date selection 
Date l amount l expend on l note l description l category | actions
Filter record by month, year, amount expend on category, start date and end date, 
search & sort by note and description
Bar graph and pie chart of expense category wise distribution
Show in table of individual category and amount expend on it and remaining amount for the month

Given amount (done)
Date l amount l name l reason l returned amount l description 
Show in table of individual person given & returned and remaining amount 
Show bar graph of individual given amount and received amount 

Personal savings (done)
Date l amount  l expend on l description 
Date l amount l Description

Loan (done)
Date l amount l name | description l returned amount l remark
In tabular view name l amount l remaining 

For me (done)
Date l amount l name l description
In tabular view name l loan amount l given amount l remaining amount to receive L remaining amount to give L whatsapp message 

Bank (done)
Dropdoen of multiple bank and user can add name of it
Date l description l deposit l withdraw l closing amount 

Discussion or note page (done)
(done) Show bar graph of monthly expend
Graph showing how much u take and what percentage I returned dual data in same bar (done)


(done)
show/hide sidebar icon & tooltip on hover
show tooltip on hover of sidebar icons
show user profile picture and name in sidebar bottom add a dropdown menu with options to view profile and logout
add logout button in sidebar
add search functionality to expenses, loans and bank entries
custom scrollbar


(done) show the user selected currency type in the profile page and use it throughout the app for displaying amounts. user can choose from a list of common currencies (USD, EUR, INR, NPR, THB, IDR, BTN, LKR, MVR, GBP, etc.) or enter a custom currency code. the selected currency will be saved in their profile and used as the default currency for all financial data displayed in the app, including expenses, budgets, bank entries, etc. this way users can see their financial data in their preferred currency format and easily track their finances without having to manually convert amounts.


setup firebase hosting and deploy the app
-----Set Up Firebase (one-time)-----

Step 1: Create Firebase Project
Go to console.firebase.google.com
Click "Add project" → name it (e.g. expenseiq) → Create
On the left sidebar:
    Authentication → Get started → Google → Enable → Save
    Firestore Database → Create database → Production mode → Pick a region → Enable

Step 2: Get your Firebase config
In Firebase Console → Project Settings (gear icon) → "Your apps" → click </> (Web)
Register app (name it anything) → copy the firebaseConfig values
Fill in your .env file:
    VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=AIzaSy...
    VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-project-id.firebaseapp.com
    VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
    VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-project-id.appspot.com
    VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=123456789
    VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=1:123456789:web:abc123

-----Deploy to Vercel-----
Step 3: Deploy on Vercel
Go to vercel.com → Sign up/login with your GitHub account
Click "Add New Project" → Import your GitHub repository
In "Environment Variables", add all 6 variables from your .env:
Click "Deploy" — Vercel auto-detects Vite
Your app gets a public URL like https://your-app.vercel.app

Step 4: Allow the Vercel domain in Firebase ⚠️ Critical
Without this step, Google login will fail for everyone.
Go to Firebase Console → Authentication → Settings → Authorized domains
Click "Add domain"
Enter your Vercel URL: your-app.vercel.app

Enable GitHub Login
1. Create a GitHub OAuth App
    Go to github.com/settings/developers → OAuth Apps → New OAuth App
    Homepage URL: https://meroexpensetracker.vercel.app
    Authorization callback URL: get this from the next step

2. Enable in Firebase Console
    Go to console.firebase.google.com → your project → Authentication → Sign-in method
    Click GitHub → toggle Enable
    Copy the callback URL shown (looks like https://your-project.firebaseapp.com/__/auth/handler)
    Paste it into the GitHub OAuth App's Authorization callback URL, then save
    Copy the GitHub app's Client ID and Client Secret → paste into Firebase → Save

Enable Microsoft Login
1. Create an Azure App Registration
    Go to portal.azure.com → Azure Active Directory → App registrations → New registration
    Name: anything (e.g. ExpenseIQ)
    Supported account types: choose Accounts in any organizational directory and personal Microsoft accounts (for both work and personal Outlook/Hotmail)
    Redirect URI: Web → get from Firebase next step

2. Enable in Firebase Console
    Authentication → Sign-in method → Microsoft → toggle Enable
    Copy the OAuth redirect URI shown → paste into Azure app's Redirect URIs → Save
    Back in Azure: go to Certificates & secrets → New client secret → copy the Value
    Go to Overview → copy the Application (client) ID
    Paste both into Firebase → Save

Enable twitter login
Go to developer.twitter.com → Sign up for Free
Create a project + app
In app settings → User authentication settings → enable OAuth 2.0
Set Callback URL to the Firebase redirect URI (https://<project>.firebaseapp.com/__/auth/handler)
Copy API Key (Client ID) + API Secret → paste into Firebase Console → Twitter sign-in method

Biometric login:
Uses Web Authentication API (WebAuthn) for secure biometric authentication
Platform authenticator support (Touch ID, Face ID, Windows Hello, fingerprint readers)
Automatic detection of biometric capabilities
Secure credential storage in Firestore
Clean, intuitive UI that matches your app's design
How it works:
    When you enable biometric login in Profile, it registers your fingerprint/face with WebAuthn
    The next time you sign in with email/password, it stores your credentials securely in localStorage
    After that, you can use biometric login - it verifies your fingerprint/face, retrieves the stored credentials, and signs you in automatically
The implementation is secure because:
    WebAuthn ensures biometric data never leaves your device
    Credentials require biometric verification to access
    Each device stores its own credentials
For social login logic:
    Social login users: When they enable biometric and then sign in with their social provider (Google, etc.), the session info is stored
    When using biometric: It checks if they have an active Firebase session
    If session is active: Biometric verification succeeds and they're in!
    If session expired: Shows a clear message to sign in with their provider once
    The key insight is that Firebase automatically maintains sessions across browser sessions using IndexedDB. So if a social login user:
        Signs in with Google
        Enables biometric
        Closes browser
        Opens browser again
        Clicks biometric button
Firebase will still have their session active (unless they explicitly signed out or it expired after a long time), so biometric will work!
    Shows Which Account Will Be Used ✓
    The login page now displays: "Will sign in as: [email]"
    Shows a hint: "Enter a different email above to switch accounts"
    If you enter a different email, it warns you that biometric is set up for a different account




implemented
-----------------------
Page	Features
Login	Google Sign-In, branded split layout, 
login using google, Email/Password, Microsoft, Apple, Twitter, github
Dashboard	4 stat cards, bar/pie/area charts, recent transactions
Expenses	CRUD, search, filters (category/date), sort, pagination, CSV export
Categories	Default + custom categories with icon/color pickers
Budget	Per-category monthly budgets, progress bars, over-budget alerts
Profile	Display name, currency setting, account stats


Collapse/Expand sidebar toggle
Hover tooltips : When collapsed, hovering over any nav icon shows a floating label tooltip to the right of the icon with an arrow pointer.
Profile section (bottom)
Shows user's Google profile picture (or initials avatar if no photo) + name + email when expanded
Just the avatar when collapsed (with title tooltip)
Clicking opens a dropdown menu with:
    Signed in as header (name + email)
    View Profile → navigates to /profile
    Logout (red) → signs out and redirects to /login
Sidebar — theme toggle button added above the profile section. In expanded mode it shows the icon + "Dark Mode" / "Light Mode" label. In collapsed mode it shows just the icon with a tooltip on hover.
Layout — Navbar removed entirely. On desktop the sidebar is always visible so no header is needed. On mobile a slim top bar (lg:hidden) shows only the hamburger button to open the sidebar.
scroll up/down buttons :
    Smooth scrolling - Uses window.scrollTo with behavior: 'smooth' for a nice animated scroll
    Scroll Up - Scrolls to the top of the page (top: 0)
    Scroll Down - Scrolls to the bottom of the page (scrollHeight)
    Auto-close - The dropdown closes after clicking either scroll button
    Responsive - Works in both collapsed and expanded sidebar modes
    Theme support - Properly styled for both light and dark modes



Dashboard page updates:
Category Breakdown toggle — now defaults to Monthly with a Monthly / Yearly pill toggle in the top-right corner of the chart card. Switching to Yearly aggregates all expenses from the current year.
Monthly Expenses showing current month — the root cause was a timezone bug: new Date().toISOString() converts to UTC, so in Nepal (UTC+5:45) "March 1 local" = "Feb 28 UTC", making March invisible. 
The Spending Trend chart now has a 6 Months / 1 Year toggle in the top-right corner — defaults to 6 months, switching to 1 Year shows all 12 months.
Bank Trend area chart now appears below Spending Trend with:
    Green area — monthly deposit totals
    Red area — monthly withdrawal totals
    6 Months / 1 Year toggle (same as spending trend)
    Title shows the currently selected bank name (e.g. "Bank Trend — My SBI Account")
    Legend labels "Deposit" and "Withdraw"
The Bank Trend card now shows a bank selector dropdown in the header when you have multiple banks — switching it instantly updates the chart without leaving the dashboard. If you only have one bank, the name is shown as plain text.
income trend line chart added below the bank trend with:
    Green line — monthly income totals
    6 Months / 1 Year toggle (same as spending trend)
    Title "Income Trend"
    Legend label "Income"
in dashboard by default select year value for category breakdown, income trend, spending trend, bank trend charts to show more data and give a better overview of the trends. users can still switch to 6 months view if they want to focus on recent activity, but showing 1 year by default provides a more comprehensive picture of their financial habits and patterns over time.

↓ 100.0% vs last month in all card in dashboard vs last year in all other 3 remaining card in dashboard
The three remaining cards now each receive trend + trendLabel="vs last year":
This Year → compares this year's total vs last year's total
Monthly Average → compares this year's avg vs last year's avg
Total Expenses → compares this year's entry count vs last year's count


Income page features:
4 stat cards: Total Income, This Month, Avg/Month, Entry count
Table with sortable columns: Title/Date, Amount, Notes, Description, Source, Actions
3-state sort cycle (↓ → ↑ → reset), same as Expenses
Filters: Source, Month, From, To with active indicator
Full-text search across all fields
Color-coded source badges (Salary, Freelance, Business, Investment, Rental, Gift, Other)
Monthly breakdown table at the bottom (bank-statement style, current month highlighted in green)
CSV export
Pagination (30 per page) > per month if more than 30 entries


Expenses and Income pages:
Behavior logic (PAGE_SIZE raised from 15 → 30):
    ≤ 30 entries → normal pagination (Prev / Next, 30 per page)
    30 entries → pagination disappears; rows are grouped under month header bands
Month header band shows:
    Month name (e.g. March 2026)
    Entry count and total amount for that month (right-aligned)
Entries within each month group are sorted newest-first (same as the existing sort). The existing Monthly Breakdown summary table at the bottom still appears as before.


Expenses page updates:
Title/Date(4) | Amount(2) | Category(2) | Note(2) | Actions(2)
The 12-column grid is currently full (4+2+2+2+2). I'll compress Title/Date to 3 and Actions to 1 to make room for a Description column.
Title / Date → Amount → Note → Description → Category → Actions
The filter panel now has 4 fields: Category → Month → From → To. Selecting a month (e.g. 2026-03) instantly narrows results to that month, and it works alongside the other filters. The month filter also activates the blue dot indicator and the
The search box now matches against all of: title, date, amount, note, description, and category name. The results count in the header also updates accordingly.
Column sort now follows the 3-click cycle:
    Click	State	        Icon
    1st	    Descending ↓	↓ (blue)
    2nd	    Ascending ↑	    ↑ (blue)
    3rd	    Reset	        ⇅ (grey)
"Expenses by Category" section now appears in Net Summary (above the monthly breakdown), with:
Left: scrollable table showing each category's icon, name, and total spent — plus a grand total row in the footer
Right: horizontal bar chart with each bar colored using the category's own color, sized dynamically to fit all categories
A Monthly Breakdown table now appears below the expense list with:
    Month column — current month has a blue dot indicator
    Transactions column — count of entries for that month
    Total column — sum for that month
    Total row in the footer — grand total of transactions and amount across all shown months
The table respects whatever filters/search are active, so filtering by category or date range will update the breakdown accordingly. Most recent month is shown first.


What the Bank page includes:
Custom dropdown to switch between banks, with edit/delete per bank
Add Bank modal — name + opening balance
4 summary cards — Opening Balance, Total Deposits, Total Withdrawals, Current Balance
Statement table — Date | Description | Deposit (+green) | Withdraw (−red) | Closing Balance (running)
Deposit / Withdraw toggle in the entry modal — one amount field, color-coded
Edit & Delete per row (hover to reveal actions)
Totals row at the bottom of the table
CSV export of the full statement
Full dark mode support
Pagination (each month per page)
Each month is its own page — February 2026, January 2026, etc.
Newest month shown first by default; use ← Older / Newer → buttons at the bottom to navigate
The totals row at the bottom of the table shows that month's deposits, withdrawals, and closing balance — not all-time totals (those remain in the 4 summary cards at the top)
Switching banks auto-resets to the newest month for that bank
Months with no entries simply don't appear as pages — only months that actually have transactions are navigable
"All Months" button appears in the action bar whenever there are 2+ months of data — toggles between monthly view and full view
In All Months mode:
    Every month is shown as a labelled section with a blue header (e.g. "FEBRUARY 2026")
    Each month has its own subtotal row (deposits, withdrawals, closing balance for that month)
    A Grand Total row at the very bottom shows all-time totals across every month
    The ← Older / Newer → navigation is hidden (not needed)
Button label switches to "Monthly View" while in all-months mode to toggle back
Search input sits at the top of the statement table, spanning full width with a magnifier icon and a clear (×) button
Searches across all entries (not just the current month) — matches on description, date (YYYY-MM-DD), deposit amount, and withdraw amount
While searching, results are shown grouped by month with month headers (same as All Months view), so you can see which month each result belongs to
Clearing the search returns to whichever view was active (monthly or all-months)
Month navigation (← Older / Newer →) is hidden while a search is active
Typing also resets to the first results page automatically
hovering over any truncated description now shows a native browser tooltip with the full text.
Every column header (Date, Description, Deposit, Withdraw, Balance) is now a clickable button
Click once → sort ascending (↑ arrow, column label turns blue)
Click again → sort descending (↓ arrow)
Click a third time → reset to default order (⇅ icon, label returns to grey)
Click a different column → sorts that column ascending and resets the previous one
Sorting applies within each month group (so months stay grouped in All Months / search view, but entries inside each month are reordered)
The Actions column is non-sortable (no button)


Lend feature is now fully implemented with the following features:
4 stat cards (Total Lent, Returned, To Receive, People count)
Sortable main table: Date | Name | Lent | Reason | Returned | Due | Description | Actions
cycle works correctly for every column:
    1st click → descending (↓)
    2nd click → ascending (↑)
    3rd click → resets to default (⇅, natural Firestore order)
Click any name in the table to filter by that person
Person Summary panel (right side, collapsible on mobile): grouped by name, sorted by most owed first, green checkmark when settled / orange alert when pending, click to filter table
Add/Edit modal with name autocomplete (suggests previous names)
Confirm delete dialog
The bar chart is now rendered below the Person Summary panel with:
    Light purple (#c4b5fd) — represents the total lent amount, scaled so the largest lender fills the full width
    Dark purple (#7c3aed) — overlaid on top showing the returned portion as a progress fill
    Each bar shows returned / lent amounts as a label on the right
    Clicking any bar also filters the main table by that person (same behavior as the summary panel above)
Toggle button (PanelRightClose / PanelRightOpen) now sits at the right end of the search bar. Clicking it hides the entire right panel and the main table expands to full width, click again to bring it back.


Loan feature is now fully implemented with the following features:
Stats: Total Borrowed / Paid Back / To Pay / Lenders count
Table: Date | Name | Borrowed | Reason | Paid | Due | Description | Actions
Lender Summary panel (right): grouped by lender name, showing total borrowed, due, settled status
Borrowed vs Paid bar chart: same light/dark purple bars
All features: sort, search, person filter, side panel toggle, autocomplete, confirm delete

link lender name & person name in loan and lend page that is if in lender name is Ram then it should show suggestion of Ram in person name and vice versa. if user click on that suggestion then it should fill the name in the form. this will make it easier for user to fill the form and also it will maintain consistency in naming. this feature is implemented in both loan and lend page.
Lend page: the name field suggests names from both Lend entries and Loan entries (lender names)
Loan page: the name field suggests names from both Loan entries and Lend entries (person names)


Features on the Saving page:
Stats strip: Total Spent, Total Sourced, Net Balance, Savings Rate %
Main table: Date | Amount | Expend On | Description — sortable columns, search, add/edit/delete
Right panel (toggleable with PanelRightClose/PanelRightOpen): Independent CRUD table of savings sources — Date | Amount | Description, with hover actions
Two separate modals for each table
Colored stat cards (matching Loan page style):
    Total Spent — plain white/gray
    Total Sourced — green
    Net Balance — blue (positive) / red (negative), dynamic
    Savings Rate — purple
Table upgraded to Loan-style:
Responsive 12-col grid layout (not <table>)
Sticky column headers with SortBtn component (sort arrows show active column)
Row hover actions fade in on hover (opacity-0 group-hover:opacity-100)
Footer totals row showing record count + sum of filtered amounts
Empty state with centered search icon
Uses shared formatCurrency / formatDate utilities
Proper validation errors in modals with ConfirmDialog component (same as Loan)
Toast notifications on add/update/delete


For Me page Features:
Table columns: Date | Amount | Name | Description — all sortable (3-click cycle: desc → asc → reset)
Stats bar: Total Entries · Total Amount · Unique People
Add/Edit modal with validation (name, amount, date required; description optional)
Search by name or description
Delete with confirmation dialog
Table footer shows filtered count + filtered total amount
Toast notifications on all actions
"For Me" nav item (Heart icon) added to sidebar at /for-me
4 colored stat cards (Total Entries, Total Amount in pink, People in blue, Highest in orange)
Sortable table (Date, Amount, Name, Description, Actions)
Name filter — click any name in the table to filter by that person
Right-side panel with collapsible Person Summary table and Bar Chart (pink bars)
Panel toggle button to show/hide the side panel
Name autocomplete in the add/edit modal
Light pink bar (full width) = grand total (Rs 170) — acts as the reference/background
Dark pink bar (proportional fill) = each person's share (Ram Rs 150 → ~88% wide, Shyam Rs 20 → ~12% wide)
A Grand Total reference row at the top showing the full light pink bar


Categories modal:
Emoji picker:
    8 category tabs (Money & Finance, Food & Drink, Travel, Home & Life, Health, Entertainment, Tech & Work, People & Care) — tap a tab to switch
    8-column grid showing 12 emojis per group (96 total)
    "Paste any emoji…" text input + Use button at the bottom — any emoji from your keyboard, clipboard, or system picker works
Color picker:
    20 preset color swatches (expanded from 10)
    A + dashed-circle button at the end opens the native OS color wheel for any custom color
    A small hex code text field below so you can type a precise hex value like #ff6b35
category editing bug fix don't show values of current selected category in the edit form to avoid confusion and accidental overwriting of existing data.
editing name, emoji, color, should reflect changes in expenses


Budget page updates:
Added a Remove button (with a trash icon) next to "Edit budget" — it only appears when a budget is already set for that category/month.
Clicking it calls deleteBudget from the context (which removes the Firestore document), then shows a "Budget removed." toast.
The page works normally as before when no budget is set.


Note page features:
Quick-add bar — click "Take a note..." to expand inline; auto-saves on close
Google Keep-style masonry grid with pin/archive/delete/color-change actions appearing on hover
9 color themes — default, red, orange, yellow, green, teal, blue, purple, pink
Pin/Unpin — pinned notes float to a separate "Pinned" section
Archive — archive removes notes from main view; toggle Archive button reveals them separately
Search — real-time filter by title + content
Sort — Last edited / Date created / Title A→Z dropdown
Grid ↔ List view toggle
Edit modal — click any card to open full-screen edit with color picker + pin toggle
Delete with confirmation dialog
Toast notifications on all actions
Firestore rule added for notes/{noteId}, NoteProvider wired in App.jsx, "Note" nav item in Sidebar
Cancel button → always calls reset() — discards without saving
Escape key → same, discards without saving
Clicking outside → still auto-saves (intentional)


Net Summary page is live at /net-summary in the sidebar.
What it shows per person:
    Column	    Source	                Meaning
    Borrowed	Loan page	            Total you borrowed from this person
    Lent	    Lend page	            Total you lent to this person
    To Receive	Lend remaining	        What this person still owes you
    To Give	    Loan remaining	        What you still owe this person
    Net	        To Receive − To Give	+green = they net owe you / red = you net owe them
Top stat cards: People · Total Lent · Total Borrowed · To Receive · To Give
A banner showing your overall net position (e.g. "You are net owed Rs X")
Sortable columns + name search + footer row totals
To Receive card = sum of net values where net > 0 (people who owe you more than you owe them)
To Give card = sum of absolute net values where net < 0 (people you owe more than they owe you)
1st click → descending ↓ (column turns blue)
2nd click → ascending ↑
3rd click → resets to natural order ⇅ (column returns to grey)
below summary table:
    Left — scrollable table listing each month with its total expense, newest first. Sticky header & footer total row. Current month row is subtly highlighted.
    Right — bar chart of the same data (last 12 months). Light indigo bars for past months, darker indigo for the current month. Y-axis auto-abbreviates large numbers (e.g. 1k, 50k). Hover tooltip shows formatted amount in your selected currency.
    Responsive: stacks vertically on small screens, side-by-side on lg+.
New "Daily Expenses" card — rendered below the Monthly Expenses card:
Month dropdown (top-right of the card header) — lists all months that have data (latest month selected by default); resets automatically when the year or calendar changes.
Left table — shows each day with its full date label (Mar 2, or Fal 18 in BS) and total, sorted newest-first, with a sticky total footer.
Right bar chart — one bar per day (X-axis = day number); colour coded:
    Dark indigo = today
    Medium indigo = the highest-spending day
    Light indigo = all other days
Tooltip shows the full day label (not just the number).
BS calendar is fully supported — day labels are converted via safeADToBS and displayed as BS_MONTHS_SHORT day.
=IF(AND(ISNUMBER(L6), L6>1), HYPERLINK("whatsapp://send?text=Date: " & TEXT(TODAY(), "mm/dd/yyyy") & "%0AHi " & I6 & ", Just a gentle reminder about the money Rs:-  " &L6 & ". Need that money back. Can you take care of it soon?", "Send Message"), "")
Date: 03/02/2026
Hi Devraj sah, Just a gentle reminder about the money Rs:-  1234.8. Need that money back. Can you take care of it soon?
Added a "Send Message" column header (col-span-2).
For each row, computes:
Today's date as DD/MM/YYYY — in BS format if the calendar is set to BS (e.g. 18/11/2082), otherwise international.
A WhatsApp message:
A wa.me/?text=... link that opens WhatsApp with the pre-filled message (no phone number required).
The green WhatsApp button is shown on desktop; on mobile it appears as a row item labelled "Send Message".
The footer row has an empty col-span-2 placeholder for the new column.


profile page features:
Active currency badge (always visible)
Search box to filter the list
2-column visual picker with symbol + code + label, checkmark on active selection
"Enter custom currency code" toggle for anything not in the list (BTC, XAF, etc.)
Currency changes are applied immediately on click (no save button needed)
NPR → Rs 601.00
IDR → Rp 1,000.00
THB → ฿ 500.00
INR → ₹ 1,234.00
USD → $ 100.00
etc...


create a yearly summary page with total expenses, loans, savings, etc. and graphs
user can choose the year in their profile settings and the dashboard and summary page will show data for that year by default so that in the future when they have multiple years of data, they can easily switch between years to see their financial history and progress over time. when user choose 2026 in profile settings, the dashboard and summary page will show data for 2026 by default. user can still change the year on the dashboard and summary page to view data for other years, but it will always default to the year they selected in their profile settings when they first visit those pages. this allows users to easily focus on their current year's financial data while still having access to their historical data when needed.
Profile — year picker (2020–next year) persists to Firestore
Dashboard — YearSelector in header; all stats, charts, and category breakdown filtered by selected year
Income / Expenses — YearSelector in header; search results pre-filtered by year
Bank — YearSelector in actions row; monthly grouping filtered by year
Lend / Loan — YearSelector in header; filteredLends/filteredLoans scoped to year
Saving — YearSelector in header; filteredSavings scoped to year
ForMe — YearSelector in header; filtered scoped to year (uses toInputDate() for Firestore Timestamps)
NetSummary — YearSelector in header; lend/loan rows, monthly chart, and category breakdown all scoped to year
Every page initializes its local year from the activeYear context (the profile setting) and syncs on change, but the user can freely override it per-page.


delete/export data of selected year in json and excel format
Export {year} Data supports BS year format  
Downloads a JSON file named expense-tracker-2025.json (or whatever year is active)
Includes all expenses, income, lends, loans, savings, saving sources, and for-me, all banks records for that year
Delete {year} Data
Shows an inline confirmation panel with a clear warning before doing anything
On confirm, deletes all records across all 7 data types in parallel
Shows "Deleting..." state on the button while in progress
Toast on success or failure


Profile picture change:
Avatar now has a hover overlay with a camera icon — click it to open a file picker
Selected image uploads to Firebase Storage at users/{uid}/profile
After upload, both Firebase Auth's photoURL and Firestore profile are updated simultaneously
The new photo appears immediately everywhere (Dashboard, Profile) without requiring a reload
Important: You need to enable Firebase Storage rules to allow authenticated users to write to their own folder. Go to Firebase Console → Storage → Rules and add:
match /users/{userId}/{allPaths=**} {
  allow read, write: if request.auth != null && request.auth.uid == userId;
}
"Remove photo" link appears next to the account badge in the profile card — only visible when a photo is currently set
Clicking it saves null to Firestore and clears avatarURL → Navbar, Sidebar, and Profile avatar immediately switch to the initials fallback
After removing, the user can still upload a new photo at any time
Also fixed the underlying avatarURL logic in AuthContext — it's now cleanly null (show initials) vs a URL/base64 (show image), used consistently across all three components
Added a small pencil (Pencil) icon inline next to the user's name in the avatar card. Clicking it replaces the name with a compact text input (pre-filled with the current name) plus a check button to save and an X button to cancel.
Saving calls the same updateUserProfile + updateUserInfo logic and shows a toast on success.
Cleaned up the now-unused User and Save lucide imports.
Below the expense stats cards, a new "Income & Bank" card shows three coloured sub-cards:
    This Month Income (green) — sum of incomes for the current calendar month, respecting BS/AD mode.
    Year Income (blue) — total income for the active year, also BS-aware.
    Bank Balance (purple) — the current closing balance of the selected bank (computed from openingBalance + all deposits - withdrawals), with a spinner while entries load.
A small bank dropdown sits below the three cards so the user can switch between their banks without leaving the page. If no banks are added, a friendly placeholder message is shown.
Fetches entries from all banks in parallel using getBankEntriesOnce(user.uid, b.id) — not just the currently selected bank
Filters by year using the same matchFn (respects BS/AD calendar mode)
Deletes matching entries via deleteBankEntry(user.uid, b.id, e.id) alongside all the other data deletions in a single Promise.all
show income & bank summary acording to selected date


International/Gregorian, Bikram Sambat, and Nepali month support:
In Profile settings, users can now select their preferred calendar system: International (Gregorian), Bikram Sambat, or Thai Solar Calendar (Buddhist Era). This choice will affect how dates are displayed across the app, including in the Dashboard charts, monthly breakdowns, and date filters. For example, if a user selects Bikram Sambat, the month names in the category breakdown and monthly breakdown tables will switch to their Nepali equivalents (e.g. "बैशाख" or Baisakh instead of "April"). The date pickers in the add/edit modals will also adapt to show the appropriate calendar system. This allows users in Nepal to view their financial data in a format that is culturally familiar and easier for them to understand at a glance.
For currenltly implement International/Gregorian calendar and Bikram Sambat calendar with month name support in the dashboard category breakdown and monthly breakdown tables. In the profile settings, users can select their preferred calendar system, and the app will adapt the date displays accordingly. For example, if a user selects Bikram Sambat, the month names in the category breakdown and monthly breakdown tables will switch to their Nepali equivalents (e.g. "बैशाख" or Baisakh instead of "April"). The date pickers in the add/edit modals will also adapt to show the appropriate calendar system. This allows users in Nepal to view their financial data in a format that is culturally familiar and easier for them to understand at a glance.
Iran & Afghanistan → Solar Hijri calendar (starts at the Islamic Hijra, year begins at the March equinox).
Ethiopia → Ethiopian calendar (about 7–8 years behind Gregorian, with 13 months).
Nepal → Vikram Samvat and Nepal Sambat
Thailand → Thai Solar Calendar (Buddhist Era)
Japan → Japanese Era Calendar
North Korea	→ Juche Calendar

New files:
calendarUtils.js — BS conversion algorithm with adToBs() and getMonthLabel(yyyyMM, calendar, format). Covers BS years 2075–2090 with verified month-length lookup table. Anchor: April 14, 2025 = BS 2082-01-01.
CalendarContext.jsx — CalendarProvider that loads/saves the preference from Firestore, exposes { calendar, updateCalendar, monthLabel }.
https://www.npmjs.com/package/bikram-sambat-js
The bug is in getMonthLabel — it uses the 15th of the Gregorian month as the representative day. But BS month boundaries fall around the 13th–17th of the Gregorian month, so March 15 tips into Chaitra while March 1–13 is Falgun. Using day 01 fixes this: the BS month that March 1 falls in is the correct label for all March data.
https://nepalidatepicker.sajanmaharjan.com.np/v5/
{"inline": true, "mode": "dark", "miniEnglishDates": true}
{"inline": true, "miniEnglishDates": true}
Add the BS date picker to the Expenses modal (ExpenseModal.jsx) - similar to what was done for IncomeModal
Change the date display in the Expenses page date column to use dateLabel()  


BS full system implementation
The user wants to implement a Bikram Sambat (BS) date system where:
    Users can choose between "AD" (international/Gregorian) and "BS" (Bikram Sambat) calendar systems
    When BS is chosen, years are shown as individual years (2080, 2081, 2082, 2083, 2084...) not as "2082/83" format
    Data is stored and queried using BS months (Baisakh, Jestha, Ashadh, Shrawan, Bhadra, Ashwin, Kartik, Mangsir, Poush, Magh, Falgun, Chaitra) with their actual date ranges
    The income trend graph needs to display data grouped by BS months rather than converting to international dates, which is currently causing incorrect data visualization
The following BS date formats are now supported in the import modal:
    Format	        Example
    BS YYYY-MM-DD	2082-06-15
    BS YYYY/MM/DD	2082/06/15
    BS DD/MM/YYYY	15/06/2082
    BS MM/DD/YYYY	06/15/2082
    BS DD-MM-YYYY	15-06-2082
    BS MM-DD-YYYY	06-15-2082
Auto-detect also now handles BS dates automatically — any YYYY-MM-DD or YYYY/MM/DD with a year ≥ 2070 is treated as BS and converted to AD before saving. When BS calendar is selected, the modal pre-selects BS YYYY-MM-DD as the default.


user should be able to delete specific page data from profile settings for example if user want to delete only loan data then they can go to profile settings and click on delete loan data and it will delete all loan data of that user without affecting other data like expenses, income, etc. this will give users more control over their data and allow them to easily remove any specific type of data they no longer want to keep in the app without having to delete their entire account or manually delete each entry one by one. this feature is implemented in profile settings with a clear warning and confirmation dialog before deletion to prevent accidental data loss.


import button to (income, expenses, bank, lend, loan, saving, for me)pages to import from CSV file exported from other apps like Splitwise, Google Sheets, etc. with mapping of columns to date (supports YYYY-MM-DD, MM/DD/YYYY, all format), amount, source, description fields. this will make it easier for users to migrate their existing data into the app without having to manually enter each record. the import process should also handle duplicates gracefully (e.g. by skipping or updating existing records based on a unique identifier) and provide feedback on how many records were imported successfully vs skipped due to duplicates or errors. ask user to confirm the duplicate insertion before proceeding to avoid accidental overwrites.
Upload — drag & drop or file picker, CSV validation
Map Columns — auto-guesses column mapping, per-field dropdowns, date format selector (8 formats + auto-detect), 5-row preview table
Review — new / duplicate / invalid counts; duplicate handling radio (skip or import anyway); expandable lists for duplicates and invalid rows
Result — imported / skipped / failed summary
Date formats supported: YYYY-MM-DD, MM/DD/YYYY, DD/MM/YYYY, YYYY/MM/DD, MM-DD-YYYY, DD-MM-YYYY, D MMM YYYY, MMM D YYYY, plus JS Date.parse fallback.
Import wired into all 7 pages:
    Page	    Button	                                Duplicate key
    Income	    Upload + green accent	                title|date|amount
    Expenses	Upload + category name-matching	        title|date|amount
    Bank	    Upload + CR/DR type column support	    description|date|deposit|withdraw
    Lend	    Upload	                                name|date|amount
    Loan	    Upload	                                name|date|amount
    Saving	    Upload	                                expendOn|date|amount
    For Me	    Upload + pink accent	                name|date|amount
Bank entries support both split-column CSVs (separate deposit/withdraw) and single-amount-with-type-column CSVs (e.g. Splitwise, bank exports with CR/DR).


add tools page with draggable & resizable calculator like ios support keyboard keys too, discoun calculator, currency converter, loan/investment calculator, date calculator,, etc.
Calculator
iOS-style dark design (#1C1C1E background, orange operators, gray function keys)
Draggable — grab the header bar and drag anywhere on screen
Resizable — drag the bottom-right corner handle (min 280×440, max 560×900)
Rendered via createPortal to document.body so it floats above everything
Keyboard support (only when no text input is focused):
    Key	        Action
    0–9	        digit input
    .	        decimal
    + - * /	    operator
    Enter / =	equals
    Backspace	delete last digit
    Escape	    clear (AC)
    %	        percent
    ⌫          backspace
Equation sub-line now shows:
    While typing: 77 + (left operand + operator)
    After pressing =: the full equation 77 + 77 = (exactly like the image), then the result 154 on the main display
    Sub-line clears when you start a new calculation
Active operator button highlights in brighter orange
The Calculator now supports touch events for both dragging and resizing. The changes include:
    Added onTouchStart handlers alongside onMouseDown for drag and resize initiation
    Updated event handlers to detect touch vs mouse events and extract coordinates from touches[0] for touch events
    Added touchmove and touchend event listeners with proper cleanup
    Used { passive: false } for touchmove to allow preventDefault() and prevent scrolling during drag/resize
The calculator will now work smoothly on touch screen devices.
The calculator now has a dropdown menu in the header that allows switching between 5 different calculator types:
    Basic Calculator - The original calculator with standard arithmetic operations
    Discount Calculator - Calculate discounts, savings, and final prices
    Currency Converter - Convert between different currencies with custom exchange rates
    Loan/Investment Calculator - Calculate loan payments or investment returns with compound interest
    Investment Type Selection (only for investments, not loans):
        One-time Investment: Calculates compound interest on a single initial investment
        Recurring Investment: Calculates the future value of regular monthly investments (like SIP/systematic investment plans)
    Date Calculator - Calculate date differences or add days to a date
Each calculator has its own UI and logic:
    The dropdown appears when clicking on the calculator type name in the header
    Touch and mouse events are supported for the dropdown
    Each specialized calculator has input fields, calculate buttons, and result displays
    The basic calculator retains keyboard support
    All calculators are draggable and resizable
The currency converter now has automatic exchange rate fetching with these features:
    "Get Rate" button - Fetches real-time exchange rates from a free API (exchangerate-api.com)
    Loading state - Shows "Fetching..." while getting the rate
    Error handling - If the API fails, it shows an error message and users can enter the rate manually
    Rate display - Shows the current exchange rate (e.g., "1 USD = 0.92 EUR")
    Manual override - Users can still manually enter or edit the exchange rate if needed
    More currencies - Added more popular currencies (20 total including AED, SGD, HKD, NZD, SEK, NOK, DKK, MXN, BRL, ZAR)
    Conversion summary - Shows a clear summary of the conversion at the bottom
The API used is free and provides:
    Real-time exchange rates
    1500 requests per month on the free tier
    No API key required
    Supports all major currencies
Users can now simply click "Get Rate" to automatically fetch the current exchange rate, making the converter much more user-friendly!
BMI Calculator:
    Toggle between Metric (cm, kg) and Imperial (feet, inches, lbs) units
    Calculates BMI with proper formula for both unit systems
    Shows BMI value with color-coded category:
    Blue for Underweight (< 18.5)
    Green for Normal weight (18.5 - 24.9)
    Orange for Overweight (25 - 29.9)
    Red for Obese (≥ 30)
    Provides personalized health advice based on category
    Displays BMI range reference chart
Age Calculator:
    Enter date of birth
    Shows exact age in years, months, and days
    Displays total age in:
    Total months
    Total weeks (formatted with commas)
    Total days (formatted with commas)
    Next birthday countdown:
    Shows the exact date of next birthday
    Displays days remaining until birthday with a celebration emoji 🎉
    Clean, easy-to-read layout with highlighted important information
Both calculators follow the same design pattern as the other calculators with:
    Smooth transitions
    Touch and mouse support
    Responsive layouts
    Clear visual hierarchy
    Color-coded results for better readability
The calculator now has 7 different modes accessible from the dropdown menu!
Scientific Calculator with all the requested features:
Trigonometric Functions:
    sin, cos, tan (with degree/radian mode toggle)
    Angle mode indicator (DEG/RAD) that can be toggled by clicking
Logarithms:
    log (base 10)
    ln (natural logarithm)
Powers and Roots:
    x² (square)
    x³ (cube)
    xʸ (power to any exponent)
    √ (square root)
    1/x (reciprocal)
Constants:
    π (pi = 3.14159...)
    e (Euler's number = 2.71828...)
Memory Functions:
    MC (Memory Clear) - Clears memory
    MR (Memory Recall) - Recalls stored value
    M+ (Memory Add) - Adds current value to memory
    M- (Memory Subtract) - Subtracts current value from memory
    Memory indicator "M" shows when memory has a value
Additional Scientific Functions:
    n! (factorial)
    eˣ (exponential)
    |x| (absolute value)
Features:
    5-column grid layout for all the scientific functions
    History display showing the last operation performed
    Angle mode toggle (DEG/RAD) visible in the display area
    Memory indicator shows when memory contains a value
    All basic calculator functions (0-9, +, -, ×, ÷, =, ., ⌫, AC)
    Keyboard support for numbers and basic operations
    Parentheses buttons (placeholder for future enhancement)
    Compact button sizing to fit all functions


quick-add feature:
add (plus icon) in the actions column of income, expenses, bank, lend, loan, saving, for me pages to quickly add an entry to those pages without having to go through the full add entry modal. this quick-add clicks "Add", the entry should be created immediately and the form should reset for the next entry. this will allow users to quickly log their transactions on the go without interrupting their workflow or having to navigate away from the current page.
income/loan/saving ↔ bank(deposit) -> choose bank
expense/lend ↔ bank(withdraw) -> choose bank
for expenses use title value as description in bank entry
from any page if user want to insert it to bank then ask for which bank and then insert it in that bank
page
----------------
pages = income, expenses, bank, lend, loan, saving, for me
income table heading = title/date, amount, notes, description, source
expense table heading = title/date, amount, note, description, category
bank table heading = date, description, deposit, withdraw, closing balance
lend table heading = date, name, lent, reason, returned, due, description
loan table heading = date, name, borrowed, reason, paid, due, description
saving table heading = date, amount, expend on, description
for me table heading = date, amount, name, description
if both page have same heading then insert data in same column otherwise use validation rule:
valid
----------
expend on/ reason -> note/notes
withdraw/deposit -> amount
lent/borrowed -> amount
name -> notes/note/description (whichever is empty, if not don't insert in notes/description to avoid overwriting existing data)
not valid
----------
source != category of income & expense
closing balance = don't use closing balance as it can be calculated from deposit and withdraw
if one table has 5 columns and other has 4 columns then use the common columns to insert data and ignore the extra column in the table which has more columns to avoid overwriting existing data

for example if user is adding expense and want to insert it in bank (choose bank) then use date, amount (in withdraw), description (expenses title) from expense and insert it in selected bank and ignore note, description, category column of expense and closing balance column of bank to avoid overwriting existing data in those columns. so that they don't have to fill the same data twice and also it will maintain consistency in data across different pages. this feature will make it easier for users to log their transactions and keep their financial data organized without having to manually enter the same information multiple times.

quick add button in the actions column of each page has to quickly add an entry to user selected pages (income, expenses, bank, lend, loan, saving, for me) without having to go through individual pages and add entry. for example i am in expenses page and i have to click quick_add then it will show the dropdown of all pages where user can select a page to quickly add an entry to that page. Suppose user selected "loan" then it will populate a modal containing current selected row value to the loan entry value to add an entry to loan page. this will allow users to quickly log their transactions on the go without interrupting their workflow or having to navigate away from the current page.

New ⚡ Quick Add flow:
Click ⚡ on any row → modal opens with a page picker grid showing all 7 pages (Income, Expenses, Bank, Lend, Loan, Saving, For Me) each with their color/icon
The picker shows a pre-fill preview summarizing the row's date, amount, and name so you know what will be carried over
Click a target page → form opens pre-filled from the current row:
    date + amount always carried over
    name/title/expendOn → mapped to the target's name-like field
    description, reason, notes, person → mapped where applicable
Click Add → entry saved, form re-prefills from original row (ready for another add to the same page)
Click Back → return to the page picker to choose a different target
Bank sync toggle still available (except when adding to Bank itself)
Current page disabled in page picker — the button for whichever page the ⚡ was clicked on renders grayed out with opacity-40 cursor-not-allowed and a (current) label, and its onClick / disabled prevent selection.
Bank dropdown is shown as the first field when targetPage === 'bank', listing all banks with a 🏦 prefix. The first bank is auto-selected when the form loads, and the selection is preserved across consecutive "Add" submissions.
If no banks have been added yet, a warning message is shown instead of the dropdown.
On submit, the entry is saved directly to the chosen bank using addBankEntrySvc(user.uid, form.bankId, data) — this doesn't interfere with the Bank page's currently selected bank in the context.
Validation ensures a bank must be selected before the entry can be submitted.
The QuickAdd modal now shows name suggestions for Lend, Loan, and For Me — same autocomplete behavior as the full modals: suggestions appear as you type, are case-deduplicated, and clicking one fills the field.


first letter always capital in table data of table for example if user enter ram in name, notes, note, description, title field then it should show Ram in the table to maintain consistency and also it will look better. this feature is implemented in all pages income, expenses, bank, lend, loan, saving, for me.
Only raises the very first character — "hello dear" → "Hello dear", "ICU dear" → "ICU dear" (already uppercase, untouched).
Applied to all 7 pages (mobile cards + desktop rows + summary panels + charts):
    Page	Fields capitalized
    Income	title, notes, description
    Expenses	title, notes, description
    Bank	description
    Lend	name, reason, description + person summary/chart
    Loan	name, reason, description + person summary/chart
    Saving	expendOn, description + sources description
    For Me	name, description + person summary/chart
name in lend, loan, for-me & net-summary pages make first letter auto capitalized first letter of word in the table and person summary/chart to maintain consistency and improve readability. This means that if a user enters a name like "ram sah" in the lend, loan, or for me pages, it will automatically display as "Ram Sah" in the tables and any related summaries or charts. This small enhancement helps to create a more polished and professional look throughout the app while ensuring that names are consistently formatted across all relevant sections.
The map key now uses trim().toLowerCase() so "Ram Sah", "ram sah", "RAM SAH" all merge into one row. The displayed name comes from the first entry encountered for that person.


implement this feature "Progressive Web App (PWA) install feature. so that user will be able to install the app  


added a resizable divider to the Loan page. Here's what I implemented:
Features:
Resizable Divider:
    A thin vertical divider between the main table and the right sidebar
    Hover effect: Changes color and width on hover (transparent → primary color)
    Visual indicator: Shows a small icon when hovering to indicate it's draggable
Drag to Resize:
    Click and drag (or touch and drag on mobile) to adjust the sidebar width
    Minimum width: 240px
    Maximum width: 500px
    Smooth resizing with cursor feedback
Persistent Width:
    Saves the sidebar width to localStorage
    Remembers your preferred width across sessions
Touch Support:
    Works on both desktop (mouse) and touch devices
    Uses touchAction: 'none' to prevent scrolling while resizing
Visual Feedback:
    Divider becomes more visible when hovering
    Shows active state while resizing
    Icon appears on hover to indicate draggability
Responsive:
    Only shows on large screens (lg breakpoint and above)
    On mobile, maintains the original stacked layout
The divider is positioned between the main loan table and the lender summary panel, allowing users to customize how much space each section takes up based on their preference!





<----------------------- counting effect on cards ------------------------------------->
dashboard, income cards, bank cards, lend cards, loan cards, saving cards, for me cards, net summary cards

useCountUp.js
 — a useCountUp(target, duration) hook that animates from 0 to the target value using a cubic ease-out over 800ms via requestAnimationFrame
CountUpValue.jsx
 — a lightweight component that parses formatted strings (like Rs 1,234.00) into prefix/number/suffix, animates the number, then re-assembles the formatted output
StatsCard updated to use useCountUp directly for the dashboard cards
All inline stat cards across Income, Bank, Lend, Loan, Saving, ForMe, and NetSummary now use CountUpValue
Every card will animate from 0 to its real value when the page loads or the year filter changes.

Before: prevTarget.current = null → on first mount with data already loaded, target !== null so it animates... but the issue was actually that React's StrictMode or the router was keeping the old component instance alive between navigations, so prevTarget.current already held the real value and the target === prevTarget.current check blocked re-animation.

After: prevTarget.current = undefined → on every fresh mount (new page), prevTarget resets to undefined, so to !== undefined always triggers the animation regardless of whether the data was already in context.

Navigate between pages now and every stat card will animate from 0 each time you land on a page.

I've changed the default duration from 800ms to 1500ms (1.5 seconds). This will make the counting animation slower and more noticeable. The animation now:

Takes 1.5 seconds to count from 0 to the target value
Uses a cubic ease-out for smooth deceleration at the end
Works on page load, navigation, and filter changes
If you want it even slower, you can adjust the duration parameter. For example:

1500 = 1.5 seconds (current)
2000 = 2 seconds (slower)
1200 = 1.2 seconds (slightly faster)
The animation is now complete and working across all your stat cards on Dashboard, Income, Bank, Lend, Loan, Saving, ForMe, and NetSummary pages! 



<------------------------------------ bank page -------------------------------------------->
add new input box in adding and editing bank, name, branch, account number, CIFID/IFSC

Account Holder Name - for the person who owns the account
Account Number - the bank account number
Branch - the bank branch name/location
IFSC / CIF ID - for Indian banks (IFSC code) or Customer ID
All fields are optional except the Bank/Account Name. The modal now:

Has a scrollable form area (max-h-[70vh] overflow-y-auto) to accommodate all fields
Saves all the new fields to Firestore
Loads existing values when editing a bank
Maintains the same styling and UX
The new fields will be stored in the bank document and can be displayed or used for reference later if needed.


<------------------------------------- interest page ------------------------------------------->
Add interest page including all types

simple interest
---------------------
principle
annual rate %
period unit (day, week, month, quaters, year)
Duration:- years: Months: Days:
result:- interest earned, principle amount, total value

A = P (1+rt)
where,
P = Principal Amount
R = Rate of interest
t = Number of years
A = Total accrued amount (Both principal and interest)


compound interest
----------------------------
principle amount
annual rate %
period unit (day, week, month, quaters, year)
compound frequency (daily, weekly, monthly, quaters, semi-annually, yearly)
Duration:- years: Months: Days:
result:- interest earned, principle amount, total value

Compound Interest = P × (1 + r/n)^(nt) – P
Where:
P = Principal amount
r = Annual interest rate (in decimal)
n = Number of times interest is compounded per year
t = Number of years


date | name | principle amount | rate% | duration | total value | info


firebase deploy --only firestore:rules
Features:
Two calculation types:
    Simple Interest: A = P(1 + rt)
    Compound Interest: A = P(1 + r/n)^(nt)
Input fields:
    Name/Description
    Date (with Nepali calendar support)
    Principal amount
    Annual interest rate (%)
    Duration (Years, Months, Days - all optional, automatically converted)
    Compound frequency (for compound interest only)
    Additional info/notes
Results display:
    Principal amount
    Interest earned
    Total value
    Save to history button
History tracking:
    Stores all calculations with full details
    Desktop table view and mobile card view
    Shows type (Simple/Compound), principal, rate, duration, interest, and total
    Delete functionality
    Year filter support
Stats cards with count-up animation:
    Total calculations
    Total principal
    Total interest earned
    Total value
Navigation:
    Added to sidebar between Bank and Lend
    Route: /interest
    Icon: Percent (%)
The page is fully integrated with your existing Firebase setup, theme system, currency formatting, and calendar system!

Completely restructured Interest.jsx:
    Moved calculator into a modal (InterestModal) triggered by "Add Entry" button
    Created table view with columns: Date | Name | Principal | Rate% | Duration | Total Value | Info | Actions
    Added InfoModal that opens when clicking the Info icon, showing full calculation breakdown
    Implemented Quick Add functionality (Zap icon)
    Added Edit functionality that opens the calculator modal pre-filled
    Added Delete functionality with confirmation dialog
    Kept the stats cards at the top with count-up animation
    Supports both desktop table and mobile card views
    Year filter works correctly
The Interest page now follows the exact same pattern as Lend, Loan, and other pages with:
    Stats cards at the top
    "Add Entry" button that opens a modal
    Table with sortable columns
    Info button that shows detailed calculation breakdown
    Quick Add, Edit, and Delete actions
    Mobile-responsive design


Duration Display: Now shows both formats:
    Numeric: "1.92 years"
    Human-readable: "(1 year 11 months 1 day)"
Interest Till Today Section: A new highlighted section that shows:
    Duration elapsed from the record date to today
    Interest earned till today (calculated in real-time)
    Current value (principal + interest till today)
    Uses the same calculation method (simple or compound) as the original
Better Organization:
    "Original Calculation" section shows the values you entered
    "Interest Till Today" section (in blue highlight) shows current values
    Both sections show the duration in both formats
The "Till Today" calculation automatically:
    Calculates days elapsed from the record date to today
    Converts to years
    Applies the same interest formula (simple or compound with the same frequency)
    Shows you the current value of your investment/loan

Now when you click the Info icon on any record, you'll see both the original calculation and the current value based on today's date!


Modal Form: Added a transaction type selector with two options:
    "Given / Invested" (green) - for money lent out or invested
    "Taken / Borrowed" (red) - for money borrowed
    Visual buttons with icons (up arrow for given, down arrow for taken)
Table Display: Added a new first column "Type" showing:
    Green up arrow + "Given" for money given/invested
    Red down arrow + "Taken" for money borrowed
Mobile Cards: Shows the transaction type as a badge at the top of each card
Info Modal: Displays the transaction type prominently with the same color coding
Database: Updated the service to save and retrieve the transactionType field
The feature helps users clearly distinguish between:
    Money they've given to others (investments, loans given)
    Money they've taken from others (loans borrowed)
This makes it much easier to track both sides of interest-bearing transactions in one place!

Person Summary Panel (collapsible):
    Shows each person with their total Given and Taken amounts
    Click on a person to filter the main table
    Active filter is highlighted
    Shows totals at the bottom
Given vs Taken Chart (collapsible):
    Visual bar chart showing Given (green) vs Taken (red) for each person
    Two separate bars per person for easy comparison
    Click on any person to filter the table
    Shows amounts in the legend
Layout Features:
    Resizable sidebar (drag the divider to adjust width)
    Toggle button to show/hide the sidebar
    Active person filter shown as a badge in the search area
    Responsive design (sidebar stacks on mobile)
Stats Updated:
    Added totalGiven and totalTaken to the stats
    Person summary calculates totals per person for both transaction types


Single Bar: One bar per person instead of two separate bars
Green Background: The full bar is green (representing Given amount)
Red Overlay: The red portion overlays on top (representing Taken amount)
Visual Interpretation:
    If the bar is fully green → Only given money, nothing taken
    If the bar is fully red → Only taken money, nothing given
    If the bar is mixed → Both given and taken, with proportions visible
The amounts are still shown in the label above each bar (Given / Taken), and the visual representation makes it easy to see at a glance who you've primarily given money to vs borrowed from.

Red bar (Taken) is the full width base - representing money borrowed
Green bar (Given) overlays on top - representing money lent/invested
Visual interpretation:
    Fully red bar → Only taken money, nothing given
    Fully green bar → Only given money, nothing taken
    Mixed bar → Green shows how much of the taken amount has been "covered" by giving


Search Features:

Search Input Field:
    Located in the header bar above the table
    Search icon on the left
    Clear button (X) appears when typing
    Placeholder text: "Search name, date, amount, rate, type..."
Searchable Fields:
    Name (person/description)
    Date (YYYY-MM-DD format)
    Principal amount
    Rate percentage
    Total value
    Interest amount
    Type (simple/compound)
    Transaction type (given/taken)
    Additional info/notes
    Searching "1.92" will find records with 1.92 years duration
    Searching "2" will find records with 2 years or any duration containing "2"
    Searching "0.5" will find records with 0.5 years (6 months) duration
Search Behavior:
    Real-time filtering as you type
    Case-insensitive search
    Clears person filter when you start searching
    Shows "No records found" with clear filter button when no matches
UI Integration:
    Search bar is responsive and takes available width
    Works alongside the person filter badge
    Panel toggle button remains accessible
    Clear button to reset search quickly
Now users can easily find specific interest calculations by searching for any relevant information like a person's name, specific amounts, dates, or even the type of interest calculation!